---
title: "Serendipitously Stumble into a Blossom"
date: 2021-11-06
tags: ["journal"]
draft: false
---

I was staring down from my Shinjuku hotel by Kabukicho. The mood here was different from that of Shanghai: although it appeared to be full of tall buildings and bustling with pedestrians at the massive crossroads, there seemed to be a slight sensation of separation in the air. Although this emotion is faint and concealed, it appears to be grasping my heart, having a significant impact on me that I have never encountered before. I seemed to have discovered a new universe and was shocked in place, flooded with mixed emotions inside. I expected the computer could show me everything in the world, but when I was in Shinjuku, gazing out the floor-to-ceiling windows at this scenery, there appeared to be a touch of melancholy in the people and objects around me and even in the surroundings. I observed a thin melancholy and emptiness hiding behind this prosperity, and I had the impression that I was gazing at a collection of people who were dying to live. It was the first time since I was a youngster that I had the feeling I was staring at a world where life was floating and sinking along the way. I had the sense that I was peering into a crystal ball filled with miniature portraits and pavilions skyscrapers being tossed around by an invisible hand, yet all striving to live and enjoying to live.

Following that, I visited Kanagawa, Kyoto, Nara, Osaka, and other places. Throughout this journey, I was strucked by a continual flow of beauty - both the busy metropolis and the serene environment were magnificent in their own way. I became increasingly convinced that there packed with profundity to it.

I got fascinated in anime when it was popular. However, I knew little to nothing about Japan. As a kid, I view it as a developed country that had invaded China, and as I got older, I view it as a pop culture paradise——manga, anime, moe; it is the origin of otaku. After this trip, I couldn't forget the people and things in Japan. I longed to listen to the songs coming from the mountains by the flowers, to pace along the well-preserved traditional Japanese trails, and to the wild hot springs that are always refreshing after a tiring journey.

**With this experience, I began exploring the culture of this nation, brimming with admiration for the people who produced such beauty.**

- "Snow Country" by Yasunari Kawabata employs basic words to achieve an ethereal yet striking beauty. Kawabata's sense of “pathos of things” struck me in the book's final phrase, “As he caught his footing, his head fell back, and the Milky Way flowed down inside him with a roar.” I never anticipated that a common word at the conclusion of the book would bring out the book's emotion in the strongest way imaginable. I sat there for a few minutes; my mind was blank since I was so taken by the beauty of the abrupt conclusion. Over the past few years, I have read and re-read basically all of China's most famous wuxia novels. It is difficult to imagine any novel more exhilarating than the unbridled swordplay in jianghu, however, "Snow Country" does not dazzle with its sophisticated writing or plot twists. It refrains from writing, converting finite words into endless imagery, and these images merge to generate a world engulfed in sadness and a person engulfed in futility. It had a completely different tone and style from Chinese literature, and I was immediately drawn in. When I seated in my car on my way home in the evening, watching the night gradually overshadow the sky and the light of the street lamps flicker, a thought always rises in my heart, a sorrow for the impermanence of things, a questioning of the current situation, a love for the beauty of nature and even the beauty of the world itself. This type of idea eventually crept into my subconscious and had a significant influence on my life.
- "The Lake" creates a poignant tone by juxtaposing the quest for ephemeral beauty with the inevitable ugliness and evil. Throughout the novel, I went from one location to another——the wooden seats in the courtyard outside the door, the crowded KFC, and even the school toilet (in order to acquire the most visceral sense of the inescapable ugliness and depravity). It is another reversal of my past life - as someone who despises ugliness and unconditionally defends my aesthetic while shutting out any alternative opinion, I learned that ugliness is ubiquitous. It's a depressing, desperate narrative, but it's also a very genuine one. People are reared with so much positive energy that they are oblivious to the world's brutality and horror. This work of fiction untied a vast kinds of knots in my heart and, instead of throwing me into sadness, offered me hope for the future. It is only after comprehending all of the unpleasantness that one may be grateful for the life that one presently leads.
- Ryūnosuke Akutagawa, on the other hand, has a diverse style: "Hell Screen" is a coldly written, atrocious human tragedy that examines the link between humans and art while mocking feudalism. As I watched the finale, the chilly wind that blows the pages up, the blackness of the night, and my conflicted attitude stayed engraved in my consciousness. What would Ryunosuke Akutagawa, who prioritizes art over life, do if he were the protagonist? Which is more important: human nature, morals, and conscience, or artistic pursuit? The solution appears clear, yet it is hidden behind logic.
- The language in "Kappa" is ridiculous and hilarious, but the fantasy worldview is filled with sorrow. I not only couldn't laugh, but also had a sense of sadness that almost made me unwilling to read. It is a mute fury at the world penned by a man on the verge of suicide. Suicide seemed meaningless and dumb to me, h owever, I've come to learn that human empathy is incredibly restricted over time; for example, when I was calm, I would never have guessed I'd be upset with my mother. Due to my healthy and cheerful life, I can't connect with people in misery anymore. Ryunosuke Akutagawa's mental illness, as well as his creative blockage, were probably enough to make him feel detached from this world.
- "Mori sensei" on the other hand, is written with both humor and earnestness, and I can't help but like those who are similar to Mori sensei.
- The beauty and sadness of Kawabata's book, as well as the diversity of Ryunosuke Akutagawa's style and the fluidity and simplicity of his writing, were unprecedented to me. They both surprised and destroyed my pride in my literary abilities, bringing me back from the perilous path of pursuing only magnificent words.

**Driven by a passion for learning, I decided to study Japanese in order to seamlessly exploring all types of original Japanese content. Simultaneously, I saw the folly of the idea that foreign languages are worthless and the necessity to widen my horizons.**

I peered into a variety of topics as I took a break to sample the fantastic animation works. My knowledge base, critical thinking, and research abilities are also strengthened when I conduct animation research or attempt to examine an animation from my own point of view.

- "Samurai Champloo" for example, includes a number of themes——not just the baseball, hip-hop, and graffiti in America, but also the shamisen, ukiyo-e, and samurai of Edo Japan. The completion of the voyage appears to be the end of the protagonists' relationship as a road movie, yet the process of this journey is unequaled. The various components in animation provided me with the opportunity to learn about other art forms as well as cultural features. While watching the anime and listening to the tracks composed by Nujabes, my prejudice against hip-hop and lofi songs faded and my understanding of traditional Japanese culture grew - the cultural history of the Edo Japan, traditional Japanese instruments and enka, Bushido and ronin, everything unfolded before my eyes in a season full of sunflowers.
- The multiple protagonists in "Fate/Zero" have diverse personalities, and the story uses vast fantasy warfare to illustrate the difficulty of differentiating between good and evil in human nature. Good, evil, right, and wrong are boundlessly revealed. After witnessing it, my heart grows unbearable doubts and worries.
- The nuanced descriptions of cultural heritage and changes, as well as the rise and fall of families and the implicit emotional force in "Shouwa Genroku Rakugo Shinjuu" remains me of Kazuo Ishiguro's "The Remains of the Day," made me perceive a wide range of emotions and left me wanting more. The jazz, shamisen, and rakugo renditions were fantastic, immersing me in the Showa era and giving me a taste of what life was like for the past few generations of Japan. Beyond the topic of the animation, I can have a better grasp of the Japanese animation industry from "Shouwa Genroku Rakugo Shinjuu". Japanese animation is becoming more commercially mature, and while there are still several issues to be resolved, good animation will not be lacking for long. However, the quality of hand-drawn animation has never been able to break through in China, and the aim and content of animation are also severely constrained. There are multiple difficulties that hinder the potential of Chinese animation, including not just the system of tight content inspection and abuse of the reporting system, but also a scarcity of high-end animation talent. Japan can promote its own culture through one-of-a-kind animation. Tens of thousands of traditional cultures are vanishing silently in China as well. It is necessary to acknowledge that there is still a difference between China and Japan in terms of promoting and conserving traditional culture.
