---
title: "Gender Theory in the Consumer Trend and Media Ecology: Epilepsy and Irrationality"
date: 2022-03-30
tags: ["critique"]
draft: false
---

## Carnival of Consumption

With International Women's Day just around the corner, China's online shopping platforms are in high gear. Discounts, product recommendations, advertisements created specifically for this day, and copywriting followed. On e-commerce platforms, the day is known as "Goddess Day" and "Queen's Day," and women——revered gods and kings——appear to gain supreme power. In the midst of social media's extravagant pomp and circumstance, words and images declaring emotional satisfaction fly like a flock of crows, dazzling the eyes. However, these flocks of crows, with their gleaming skins, are feasting on the rotten flesh of their disciplined consumer mentality.

Social media performs the function of a "display window." Humans portray themselves as "objects": when presented in a fractured and divided frame in social media, people are no longer full individuals, but rather discontinuous like "objects." It is this discontinuity that causes women's bodies to be frequently consumed in social media, and it is this ideology that thickens the base of patriarchal society, allowing its power to spread, penetrate, and eventually fade out of sight without being known. However, this ideology always disciplines people and allows the new generation living in the online world to pass on patriarchal society's old ideas. Beauty becomes a religious demand for women in a capitalist culture (Baudrillard, 2014, p.124). 

The "apparent" emancipation of the female body is interpreted as a sign of women's liberation. The slovenly messiness behind this sign, however, is hidden by the so-called "body liberation," and the generally perceived appearance of progress in the modern female condition——for example, women are now free to dress as they wish compared to the Victorian girdle and the Chinese foot-binding——contains the more sinful waters of capital. Because beauty is a sort of capital, it has become an absolute necessity (Baudrillard, 2014, p.124). The body must be "liberated" to be used sensibly for constructive goals (Baudrillard, 2014, p.127). The capital-controlled consuming trend on social media, which offers women nothing but mockery, hatred, and hostility in competition with each other, reinforces the socio-cultural stereotype of women being persuaded/commanded to "consume." People's exchange values are displayed in the form of data in the digital jungle of the social media landscape, and people's narcissism and self-affirmation of power are gratified through so-called "likes."

---

## "You Look like a Girl"

Gender stereotypes are an integral aspect of patriarchal culture, and some people are harvesting traffic by disseminating traditional views of sowing the older generation through self-publishing. The most common kind of pushback is the "masculinity" craze: with the progressive rise of "fresh meat" male stars, some people believe that men have lost their "masculinity" and have become "feminine like femininity." However, this is merely a gender stereotype. Gender studies in recent years have consistently demonstrated that there is no biological difference between men and women on the level of thought (Weigard, Loviska & Beltz, 2021). Who says boys have to play with robots and girls have to play with Barbies? Who says men have to be daring while women have to be cautious? Furthermore, who says that men must be breadwinners and women must be housewives? When the phrase "like a woman" becomes a disparaging epithet and is often used on social media, it is apparent that something is terribly wrong in society.

With the rise of social media, supporters' attention-grabbing conduct has become more prevalent in the media. Numerous self-publishers have decried this as a damaging societal trend and have urged for the regulation of the so-called "fan circle chaos" and the entertainers. Women have naturally been targeted because the majority of fans are female. In an interview with Henry Jenkins in China, it was revealed that fans do things that make sense to them, even if they appear irrational to others (Jenkins, 2021)While idol worship is the same as sports star worship, and there is no superiority or inferiority between the two, how many of today's social problems are addressed to female supporters while ignoring the source of the problem? It is true that the fan circle has been rectified, but women have become scapegoats who are not understood by the patriarchal society to make concessions, which is at the same time a step backward for the society.

---

## Digital Smoke that Disseminate for Thousands of Miles

Despite the fact that communication conveys the idea of gender equality, the medium's distortion of information and the difficulty of accountability on the Internet has caused many people to misinterpret gender equality and incite gender antagonism.

Social media is a sandbox for the masses to display their emotions and expand pandemonium at will. When people receive the information, they filter the arguments and begin to respond with the same rash, emotion-driven messages. It is now commonplace to assume the moral high ground and lash out at those below in a way that incites gender antagonism. This demonstrates that China's social media opinion field has entered the post-truth era: audiences care less about whether the information is true or not, and more about the emotional factors behind the information's claims. Once they have expressed and vented their emotions, they leave the opinion square without caring about the subsequent development of public opinion (Hu, 2018). At the same time, electronic media, according to Joshua Meyrowitz's theory, has enabled the merging of previously disparate social scenes, blurring the line between private and public behavior and breaking the link between physical and social location (Qiang & Dai, 2016), resulting in personal accounts that can be accessed by anyone on social media and frequently containing a lot of personal information. When the war of words becomes a personal attack, the "human flesh search engine" emerges. Some of the private information, such as selfies and prior utterances, can become evidence for others to attack. “Whereas these old forms of capturing moments also transcend time, we argue that the documenting practices typical of social media sometimes do more: They collapse time, muddling the distinction between the current version of a life narrative and previous versions.” Internet users are presented with a collapsed temporal order and jumbled life narratives, but they only see them as a whole and utilize them as a basis for personal assaults. Since all the ways in which the discussion's focus is diverted away from the subject, the discussion of gender in social media is frequently reduced to murky water, and the discussion itself is extinguished.

For Chinese netizens who lack proper knowledge of gender, misogyny is a common phenomenon. With the rise of self-media and the extremely rapid development of the live streaming industry, self-media with "striking performance effectiveness" has rapidly grown and dominated the traffic. The wildly circulating "memes/jokes" contain many words that objectify and discriminate against women. The passerby who mediates the offensive atmosphere becomes the " (derogatory) Holy Mother" and not discriminating against women with the masses is a manifestation of "old-fashioned thinking"...... The network then emerged crowds with "misandry", as a reflection of misogyny and a kind of backlash. Such a gender dichotomy has grown here and there, never ignored by the media, never being ignored by the media, and never disappearing from people's minds.

Serious discussions are rare on social media, and its fast mobility and iterative nature make it harder for users to think thoroughly about a passage, as Baudrillard stated, "communication excludes culture and knowledge." (Baudrillard, 2014, p.91) In this case, the peripheral route of persuasion only creates a vicious cycle of gender antagonism that needs to be replaced by the central route of persuasion. By directly articulating gender inequality in an instance and promoting respect and acceptance, the relatively rational users of social media are more likely to reflect deeply on gender equality and even refresh their existing values. It is critical to recognize that the power imbalance between men and women is the root cause of the gender attacks on social media, while another factor, a lack of accountability due to the nature of the internet, maybe the trigger for the conflict. The media followed immediately, dispersing digital smoke in all directions and sparking a more violent and illogical battle of words.

### References

*The Consumer Society*, Jean Baudrillard, 91, 124, 127

Alexander Weigard, Amy M. Loviska & Adriene M. Beltz: “Little evidence for sex or ovarian hormone influences on affective variability” states that men’s emotions fluctuate to the same extent as women’s, although likely for different reasons.

Chen.L (2021September 26). *Intenvtew with Hemy Jenkins: Whomade the "crazy" fans*.Baijiahao.Retrieved March 26.2022.from https: [baijiahaobadu.com/s?id=1710154649607859625&wfr=baike](http://baijiahaobadu.com/s?id=1710154649607859625&wfr=baike). 
> When we say fans are 'crazy' and 'irrational,' it means we don't understand why fans behave the way they do. But that doesn't mean fans don't understand their own choices: fan culture is about creating meaning and sharing feelings with others, and it is governed by its own subcultural rules and conventions, norms and conventions that may not be fully understood outside of their own communities, but what they do makes sense to them.

Hu. (2018, March 24). *Hot Knowledge for Journalism and Communication Exam*. Zhihu. Retrieved March 26, 2022, from https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/34904745

*Frontiers of Journalism and Communication Theory: In the Perspective of Media Convergence*, Ying Qiang and Lina Dai

Brandtzaeg, P. B., & Lüders, M. (2018). Time collapse in social media: extending the context collapse. *Social Media+ Society, 4*
